---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 3"
subtitle:   "Baby Steps"
date:       2014-12-27 11:59:59
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/day3.png"
---

This one's going to be short, I didn't end up putting in too much time today.
The great thing about making myself post once a day is that I will at least
get **something** done. So today I decided I'm going to solve that one pesky
bug that has been sitting in SharpNav's code base for probably a year now.

The problem is that I've gone through the whole proces side-by-side with
Recast a few times now, I've tried stepping through the code and seeing if
anything is seriously wrong, and I've tried outputting intermediate data as
images, but I've never been able to actually solve it.

It's a pretty glaring issue, especially when the default debug view in the
Examples project is "Polygon Mesh Detail" when the bug is in the
`PolyMeshDetail` class. However, it's not a very serious issue, since
pathfinding can be accomplished with a `PolyMesh` alone. I've just avoided
releasing a 1.0+ version of SharpNav because of it.

So now I have to debug the issue in a smart way. I scanned through all the
polygons in the generated `PolyMeshDetail` by highlighting the 'selected' poly
in yellow and binding the left and right arrow keys to incrmenet/decrement the
poly index. I also spit out the index of the current poly to the console. Now
I have a list of the polys that are causing issues and can insert conditional
breakpoints when I reach those indices.

From there, the plan is to follow (by hand) that specific index through both
the processes of being generated in `PolyMesh` and also adding detail in
`PolyMeshDetail`. Instead of outputting intermediate data for 138 polygons,
I can narrow it down to 4 that produce broken polygons and 6 that aren't
properly adding detail.
