---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 7"
subtitle:   "Continuous Integration"
date:       2014-12-31 19:27:00
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/day7.png"
---

My last update for both the first week of #100daysofhacking and the year!
Today I fixed up all the issues surrounding SharpNav after I revamped a lot of
it for a 1.0.0-alpha.1 release. There were a few odds and ends that I had to
take care of, like updating [shields](http://shields.io/) in README.md,
switching the examples project's dependencies from assuming it's in the GAC to
using NuGet, etc.

I spent most of my time today getting the TravisCI build working. I spent a
while trying to work off the old `language: c` script where I installed Mono
and other dependencies myself. It wasn't until I read that TravisCI has beta
support for C# that I got it working. The main blocker was that I couldn't
download NuGet as a package, and was about to set up a script that grabbed
NuGet.exe online and ran it from the current directory.

I still cannot get the .sln file to exclude SharpNav.Examples from the build
when the configuration isn't `Standalone` or `OpenTK`. Luckily, I had already
set up a separate MSBuild file, `TravisCI.proj`, to compile on Travis that
only builds SharpNav.csproj and SharpNav.Tests.csproj.

What my MSBuild script wasn't doing, though, was compiling all of the targets
one after the other. I found a very simple solution that was actually a part
of TravisCI instead of MSBuild (which now makes a lot of sense). I set up a
build matrix with different targets, and each Job within a Travis CI build
called a different target in TravisCI.proj. That way in Travis, I can see at a
glance which configurations are working and which ones are failing.

That's all I've got for now. Happy New Years to you all!
