---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 2"
subtitle:   "On Windows x64, a 'long' and a 'long long' are not the same size. On Linux and OS X, they are."
date:       2014-12-26 11:59:59
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/day2.png"
---

A few years back I wrote a wrapper for FreeType called SharpFont. I was
working on a game engine written entirely in C# and System.Drawing.Font was
not giving me the kind of metrics I needed to render fonts on my own. From
what I had read, FreeType was popular with game developers and I saw that the
existing FreeType bindings for C# were severely lacking. So I decided to work
on my own wrapper that would provide the full FreeType API and also look and
feel like a normal C# library.

Now, I have just over a thousand downloads on NuGet and SharpFont is being
distributed with [MonoGame][1], [OpenRA][2], the [Paradox Engine][3], and
countless other projects I haven't heard of.

Moving on to today, day 3. I checked GitHub and saw that someone had
[opened an issue][4] regarding the one major bug that's been in SharpFont
since I started working on it - the fact that on Windows, struct sizes are
different than on Linux or OS X, but only for 64-bit versions. The issue
lies in how C/C++ compilers define sizes for specific types. Namely, the
`long` type. Windows chose the path of backwards-compatibility for
applications and made `long` 4 bytes wide. Linux and OS X chose another
path, one where a `long` is longer than a `long`.

The C# specification doesn't provide minimum sizes for data types, it provides
exact sizes. An `int` is 4 bytes wide, a `long` is 8 bytes wide, and there's
no `long long` type. The solution this whole time was to compile two different
versions of SharpFont, one for Windows x64 that uses `ints` in place of
`long`s and another for every other platform that uses `IntPtr`s in place of
`long`s.

This worked really well and any project using it had their own method of
building FreeType to avoid any issues.

The issue that was opened today was saying how one of the latest versions of
FreeType actually solved the issue upstream. So I went ahead and ripped out
the entire system I had set up and made sure the project wasn't being forced
to run as x86. After dealing with a few bugs, I got it to run but noticed that
the regular 64-bit version was spitting out a bunch of errors about overflows
and mismatched sizes, so I swapped out all the `IntPtr`s with `int`s and it
seemed to solve the issue on Windows.

Turns out that on Linux it does still appear to be using 8 bytes per long, and
though there are parts of FreeType that define a type with __int64, it's not
actually being used anywhere in the code base. I'll need to look deeper into
it on another day.

Additionally, the user who submitted the issue mentioned that he could provide
some custom builds of FreeType that integrated other libraries like zlib,
libpng, etc. This made me realize that I could store a bunch of different
versions of FreeType and use them in something like a
[Travis CI Build Matrix][5] to test for regressions and ensure that SharpFont
works on different versions of FreeType. Before this I was building a single
x86 version on my machine and testing with only that before releasing new
versions. One of these days I intend to work on setting up basic unit tests
with NUnit and testing the entire build matrix on Travis CI. 

I also need to start writing these posts earlier since I'm consistently
posting them in the wee hours of the morning. Other than that, I'd consider
today another moderately successful day.


[1]: https://github.com/Mono-Game/MonoGame.Dependencies/tree/master/SharpFont
[2]: https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA/blob/bleed/thirdparty/fetch-thirdparty-deps.sh
[3]: https://github.com/SiliconStudio/paradox-deps/tree/master/SharpFont
[4]: https://github.com/Robmaister/SharpFont/issues/46
[5]: http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/build-configuration/#The-Build-Matrix
