---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 8"
subtitle:   "One Configuration To Rule Them All"
date:       2015-01-01 23:59:59
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/black.png"
---

No fancy cover image today. I did do some pretty important work, though. As of
today, the `WIN64` configuration of [SharpFont][1] is gone and I built a
special version of FreeType on Windows that makes this possible.

My patch is probably not the cleanest way of solving the issue, but it gets
the job done. I just found every instance of `typedef long` and replaced it
with `typedef __int64`. The result is now that one copy of SharpFont.dll can
go on any machine in any configuration and work with it's copy of FreeType.

The proper way to proceed is to request some kind of compile-time option to be
put into FreeType, or perhaps to ask them to correct the issue on Windows.

On the other hand, though, this may be an issue on Linux and OS X, as a lot of
the types in FreeType that use `long` are explicitly made to be 32 bits wide,
and when I receive those values on a 64-bit OS, I have to truncate them down
to 32 bits. Windows kept `long` 32-bits wide for compatibility reasons like
this. When you had 16-bit operating systems, you used a `long` to ensure you
had **at least** 32 bits of space. Microsoft felt there were enough legacy
applications making this assumption that they kept `long` the same size as
before.

Requesting an ABI and potentially API breaking change won't go over smoothly,
especially if I'm asking to force 32-bit values on Linux, which will make
package managers annoyed. OS X already ships with a copy of FreeType with
64-bit wide `long` values. The path of least resistance is to change the one
platform that's different, and an optional compiler flag would do just fine in
this case.

I've also pulled in the `fixed-point-types` branch that I started a while ago.
This branch implements two fixed-point number formats, 16.16 and 26.6. What
does that mean? Well, a [fixed-point number format][2] is a format that has a
specific number of bits set aside for the decimal. It is still an integer, but
scaled up by a specific factor.

For example, a 16.16 fixed-point value has 16 bits of decimal resolution. That
means that you can have `2^16`, or `65536` possible decimals between any two
integers. Since this is a power of two, you could use a bit shift operation to
truncate the number (`val >> 16`), or divide it by `65536` as a floating point
value to convert it to a floating point number.

I still need to go through the entire API and replace integers with my fixed
point number structs, and potentially implement any other formats that are
used by FreeType besides 16.16 and 26.6. The FreeType headers mention a 2.14
fixed point format, I'll have to check if it's still in use anywhere before
implementing it, though.

Looks like my work is cut out for me tomorrow!


[1]: https://github.com/Robmaister/SharpFont
[2]: http://www.hugi.scene.org/online/coding/hugi%2015%20-%20cmtadfix.htm
