---
layout:     post
title:      "Days 18-21"
subtitle:   "Skyrim (mostly)"
date:       2015-01-15 23:59:59
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/day18.jpg"
---

So I've spent these last few days mostly playing Skyrim. I guess it's just
balancing out my severe lack of gaming in the past year. I'd put it somewhere
around 10 hours total. I've been so consumed by school, work, and hackathon
organizing that I never really had the time to sit down and work through a
game.

Besides short rounds of Team Fortress 2 or Killing Floor, the only game I sat
down and played through was [To the Moon][1], which was actaully a wonderful
experience that I'd recommend.

Anyways, I still managed to get some work done, mostly at night after I found
a nice stopping point in Skyrim and before I went to bed.

Most of my time was spent wokring on SharpDoc. I'm looking for ways to make
the address bar URL represent the documentation page that's being viewed. I
tried to roll my own implementation by changing `window.location.hash`, but
hitting the back or forward buttons wouldn't work as expected. I kept trying
to make it work and eventually found a library that does exactly this with
HTML5 but also provides compatibility for older browsers - [History.js][2]. I
am now working on getting this integrated properly and perhaps also doing
away with the iframes and dynamically loading content via javascript (but keep
the iframe tags there for ancient browsers or noscript users).

Besides that, I've just been in maintenance mode. In a few days I will release
a new version of SharpFont and also introduce a new NuGet package with
only freetype6.dll, hopefully providing multiple architectures and
compatibility with all recent versions of Windows.

Stay tuned as a pick up the pace again!


[1]: http://freebirdgames.com/to_the_moon/
[2]: https://github.com/browserstate/history.js/
