---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 17"
subtitle:   "Updating SharpFont"
date:       2015-01-11 23:59:59
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/black.png"
---

Tonight I decided I should give SharpFont a little attention since I've been
doing a lot of good work on SharpNav lately. I left off with SharpFont working
on Windows 64-bit without needing to be recompiled but with some
inconsistencies with the binaries, an ever-expanding `Dependencies` folder
filled with binary files, and a downstream that couldn't use the latest
version.

So I first tackled the issue of a having a very large `Dependencies` folder.
The issue, if you don't know, is that git is pretty bad with binary files when
compared against how it handles text files. If I keep on adding binary files
to the repository, it will eventually be very slow to clone and work with in
general. So the solution was to split the subtree for the `Dependencies`
folder and throw it into a separate repository, [SharpFont.Dependencies][1],
that would be referenced in SharpFont as a [git submodule][2].

The process was very smooth, and it all works perfectly right now.

I still need to go through and update the binaries, as well as provide 2.5.4
and 2.5.5 binaries - which will happen tomorrow.

The last issue is that OpenRA is still on 2.5.0.1 instead of 2.5.3. I'm
planning on forking OpenRA and fixing all the breaking changes introduced with
this latest version (which will be released in a few day's time), as well as
modifying their dependency fetching script to download the correct version of
freetype6.dll from the new repository.

I also went through and updated everything in the project's README.md.

So not a whole lot happened tonight, and I'm going to blame that on Skyrim :P

[1]: https://github.com/Robmaister/SharpFont.Dependencies
[2]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules
