---
layout:     post
title:      "Day 9"
subtitle:   "Fixed-Point Types"
date:       2015-01-03 13:14:20
author:     "Robert Rouhani"
header-img: "img/bg/day9.png"
---

As of today I'm changing the format of these posts. Since I stay up and hack
until I've reached a stopping point, which is usually past 1am. So most of my
blog posts have been written quickly between the time I'm done with my code
and when I go to bed. I'll also post them just after I write them and 3am is
probably the worst time to post on social media if you want people to actually
see what you're posting. This is why there's a gap between 1/1 and 1/2.

So now I'm going to write these posts in the mornings/afternoons and they will
include 2 things:

  1. Details on the work I did on the previous day
  2. What I plan on doing on the current day
  
So with that, I'll go ahead and get started!

Yesterday I went through [the whole FreeType API][1] and found the bits where
they were using fixed-point values (in 2.14, 16.16, and 26.6 formats) and
replaced the returned `int`s with the equivalent struct (`Fixed26Dot6`, etc.).

This went well and was a fairly simple process. The 64-bit `long` length issue
did make some of it relatively annoying. With previous changes, I had outright
replaced `IntPtr`s with the fixed-point structs that are backed by an `int` in
my `extern` definitions. On 64-bit systems this will cause a stack imbalance
when invoked, so I had to revert them back. This also made the wrapper methods
look a little messier. For fixed-point parameters, you need to pass
`(IntPtr)x.Value` to the function instead of just `x`. For return values, the
following needs to be done:

{% highlight csharp %}
IntPtr outVal;
FT.FT_Some_Function(face.Reference, out outVal);
return Fixed26Dot6.FromRawValue((int)outVal);
{% endhighlight %}

instead of just:

{% highlight csharp %}
Fixed26Dot6 outVal;
FT.FT_Some_Function(face.Reference, out outVal);
return outVal;
{% endhighlight %}

The most annoying difference is in the fixed point math functions like the
following:

{% highlight csharp %}
public static Fixed16Dot16 MulFix(int a, Fixed16Dot16 b)
{
    return Fixed16Dot16.FromRawValue((int)FT.FT_MulFix((IntPtr)a, (IntPtr)b.Value));
}
{% endhighlight %}

These are definitely supposed to be 32-bit wide values, but due to the way
FreeType declares variables on 64-bit systems, the values must be expanded to
64-bits then the retrieved value must be truncated to 32-bits again.

The other issue I had with implementing fixed-point types is that FreeType
loosely defines when values are fixed-point or just basic integers. The issue
is mostly determined by whether or not the user applies the `NoScale` flag
when loading a font. I added documentation to the affected fields and methods
saying that in that case the user can get the raw integer by calling
`Fixed16Dot16.Value` (an instance property) to get the raw integer out of the
struct.

This does mean that the next release of `SharpFont` will not be considered
backwards-compatible. I'm not sure if I want to start using SemVer and bump
the number up to v3.0.0 or maintain the current versioning scheme which is
matching FreeType's version numbers.

----------

What I plan on doing today is jumping back into SharpNav and making some huge
refactoring and cleanup runs. Once I'm happy with the public-facing API
(almost definitely not today), I'll release the final v1.0.0 version. I will
likely release one more alpha that contains refactored code, but I won't pull
it out to beta until I can properly test and debug the pathfinding and crowd
management code.

I will also give more thought to the versioning of SharpFont and potentially
implement some way in code to determine what version of FreeType an API is
from through reflection, and if that way is good enough, to start using SemVer
instead of piggybacking off FreeType's version numbers.

[1]: http://www.freetype.org/freetype2/docs/reference/ft2-index.html
